Well we've looked at rendering and our camera we've looked at lighting and seen scale.
Now we can actually begin assigning materials to our scene.
So for the first object to assign a material it's maybe like this bullheadedness like this and hit the
period key on the numpad and zoom into it.
If we come over here to the materials panel in the Properties window right here we can see that we have
no materials on this whatsoever.
So to create a material we just need to click new.
And there we go.
Now this has an actual material that reacts to light in a specific way.
So I'll go ahead and switch over to the viewport shading rendered view and we don't see much of a difference
here.
Let me select it here and go ahead and zoom in as well.
Right over here.
And let's keep a close eye on this as we adjust our materials.
Now so far there isn't much of a difference here for the ball.
And let's go ahead and change the name of this material to bowl just so we know what it is.
The basic diffuse Shater is pretty bland.
There isn't much to it.
It's kind of like a piece of paper.
There's no reflection or secularity no highlights to it.
It's just kind of a flat matte color.
We can change the color here in our color swatch.
Maybe we want this to be kind of a green.
And there we go.
And you can see now with the cycle's lighting how even some of that green is being reflected off onto
the counter.
So this is what I meant by how the lights react in a real world way as they bounce around the scene.
So OK so if we have our green bowl here what if we wanted to make it a little bit shiny or maybe have
some highlights or even a little reflection.
Let's take a look at how to do that.
I'm going to open up a new window here by clicking in this tab right here and dragging down.
Now we have these two 3-D view windows.
I'm going to hit the T key up here to close that tool's panel and then what I'll do is help change this
window type from a 3D view to a note editor.
And here we go.
These are the nodes that make up our materials.
And once again I am in the cycle's render engine if you aren't this Windu is going to look a bit different.
Now just to be sure we're all on the same page here.
I have the shader no type selected.
We also have a composite ing nodes and texture nodes.
But here we want our material because we want to be able to see the shader or material that we're building.
In addition I have used nodes selected.
So be sure you have that selected to be able to see the nodes up here in the window.
All right so we know we have this diffuse Shater and this is mainly just the color of the object.
That's all that is if we want to add any Specularia any highlights any reflection anything else to this
material.
We're going to need to add a new node.
So let's come down here and click on Add And now we have all these nodes that we can choose from.
There's quite a few However let's come down to Shater and choose a glossy shader.
I'm going to move my mouse up to here and click and now I can place that glossy shader in the node window.
Now I can grab one of these sockets and click it and drag it and put it in another socket over here
into the material output.
And if I do that it cuts off the green and just gives me the glossy Shater and now you can see it looks
kind of like a brushed metal.
I can increase the roughness and it will become just a gray matte finish.
Or I can take the roughness all the way down and it becomes like like a mirror and reflects the other
objects in the scene.
However this isn't quite what I was looking for what I want is a green ball with just a little bit of
shine to it.
So what we need to do is bring these two nodes into the material output to do that we need to mix them.
So I'll come up here to add Shater and choose a mix shader.
I'll put that here between the two.
And as I hover over that connection it highlights and if I click it will automatically connect it.
So now I'm going to put this connection on the bottom Shater socket and take the diffuse to the top
and there we go.
Now we've got a green bowl that has some reflection on it and we can adjust how much of each of these
is coming through to our material output by adjusting the mix factor here if I take this all the way
up to one.
We see no green whatsoever.
And I take it all the way down we only see the green.
Now I think I'm going to take it back up to oh something like point three.
And I'll also increase the roughness a bit on the glossy Shater so it isn't quite so shiny.
So let's see what we think about this.
Now we've got our green bowl but with a little bit of shine to it we can kind of see some highlights
and a little bit of reflection happening inside the bowl and of course how you want to adjust this is
totally up to you.
I'm going to maybe bring this up a little bit more so we can see the reflection in the bowl.
Let's try another one.
I'm going to zoom out here and what I'll do is go ahead and hit the zero key in this view and I'll switch
this view back to the solid view and I'll come over here and change this from the solid to rendered.
And now we can work in this view.
I'll zoom out and let's think about the color of the cabinets.
I'm thinking that the cabinets up here should probably be like a gray like maybe a deep gray.
Let's give that a try.
So I'll select the cabinets up here and you can see they've been selected because it says cabinets here.
Create a new material click new and call this cabinets.
I'll change the color from a white to kind of a medium gray here maybe something like that.
And then I'll add a glossy shader to it add Shater glossy and I'll also add a mix Shater as well.
Connect those two up and see how it looks.
I think I'd like it to be a little bit darker than this.
I can choose the color swatch here on the diffuse Shater or I can come back over here and you can see
our two nodes listed here in the surface area of the materials panel.
So if I just open up this little plus right here I have access to the color here so I can click that
and maybe I'll take it down just a little bit.
Kind of like that and I'm not sure I need that much shine on it so maybe I'll bring the mix factor down
maybe two point three.
I can actually type in point three here and if I want to I can take the roughness up just a bit and
see how that looks.
So that's the basic process of adding and setting up our materials on our objects.
Now we can add multiple materials to an object and also we have many more shader nodes to choose from
here as well.
So in the next video we'll take a look at using a few of those.